All right, so we only have two tests for our job listing component, but I'm already seeing a lot of
duplication between our tests, primarily in this configuration object that we provide as the second
argument to the mount function.
So if possible, I'd like to move as much of this logic outside of each individual test.
I want each test to only worry about the details that it cares about for its assertion.
So for example, information like the stabbing of the router link is something that we really don't
care if another reader sees in our test.
That's just something that we need to take care of for the purposes of the test being able to run it
normally.
So what I propose we do is to create a factory function.
We did this strategy earlier in the course.
A factory function operates just like a factory does in real life.
It produces something.
And in our case, it's just going to produce the configuration object that we want to pass as the second
argument to mount.
One reason that we might want to use a function instead of a regular object, by the way, is because
the function guarantees that we're always getting a new object which prevents accidental mutation from
one test to the other.
If we have an object somewhere in our file and we accidentally change one of its properties in one test
that can cascade into another test accidentally.
In comparison, a function will always return a new object, even if it has the same properties, and
that makes it much less likely that one test will accidentally influence another.
So let me show you what I'm thinking with my factory function right here in my described block, I'm
going to put it at this level.
So every test below has access to this function.
I'm going to create an arrow function called create config.
And for now it's going to affect or accept no arguments.
And I'm going to implicitly return an object which I can do in E6 using a pair of parentheses, and
then my object syntax right here and here.
I'm going to copy everything I have for my configuration object right here.
So I'm going to copy it from a sample test and it's going to look like this.
So right here we have our props and we have our global property as well.
Now we copied it from our first test where we set up the job object with a title property.
But keep in mind our second test depends on a job with an organization property.
So to make sure that that factory object can fulfill any test, I'm going to copy this organization
property up top as well.
So now it's going to have both a title and an organization.
Perfect.
So now that allows me to invoke the create config function in every one of my tests.
So right here I can remove this complex object and simply replace it with an invocation of the create
config function.
Above that is going to return the object that we have right here and that's what we're going to substitute
as our configuration object for the amount function and the test becomes a lot shorter, right?
We're going to do the exact same thing below.
So I'm going to replace this whole big object with a call to my create config function.
And I'm going to make sure to invoke it right here.
Save the file, let our tests run and our tests are passing so everything is going fine as far as.
And nothing has broken.
Everything is still functioning.
Now, this definitely reduces the size of the two tests, but I wonder if we can do better.
And I would still argue there's some potential issues here.
For one, I don't like that the tests don't provide any context and require us to scroll up.
So what I mean by that is imagine we have this view right now and a developer looks at this job description
or this test description and it says it renders job title, and they see that somewhere there's supposed
to be a text, a view developer.
They have no context as far as where a view developer is coming from.
What what?
Where is that coming from?
Why does it matter?
Why is it this string?
Now, normally, if we're if we're not obsessing over the implementation, this would be something fine.
If our component renders this text on screen manually, I would be okay with just testing right here.
But in this case it's a specific interaction, which is a prop called job flowing into our component
and it is a property on that job object that influences the text that this component displays.
So in this case, I would like something that communicates at least something a little bit better as
far as where this string is coming from.
So the user does doesn't have to scroll up and look at this props and look at this job and figure it
out that it's coming from this property right here.
So how can we kind of get the best of both worlds where we reduce the duplication but allow each test
to express the information that it needs to arrive at its assertion?
Well, here's what I propose we do.
I propose that we create a separate factory function just for the job props.
So just for this object right here, I propose that we create a separate function, and we're going
to be able to write that function in such a way that each test can provide custom properties that it
cares about while still having a reasonable set of default properties that we can fall back to if a
test doesn't care about a given set of properties.
So let me show you how this is going to work and hopefully it makes sense when you see it as an actual
example.
So right here, I'm going to create another arrow function called create job props.
And for this area function, I'm going to provide a job props parameter and this ideally will be a JavaScript
object that the test will pass in.
But I want to make this argument optional so the tests don't have to provide anything if they don't
want to.
So in order to provide a default value for this parameter, I can just put an equal sign and then an
empty JavaScript object.
So if a invocation of create job prompts doesn't give me an argument, we're going to fall back to an
empty JavaScript object here.
I'm going to implicitly return another object as well.
So parentheses and my object syntax.
And what I'm going to return is these two properties right here.
So this represents basically a sample job.
In fact, we might even call this function create job that would be just as well on a good name as create
job props.
So basically it's a sample job with a title, with an organization, maybe with other properties if
we later determine that we need them.
But it's kind of a standard job that we can use.
However, what I'm going to do with that job props argument, which is going to be a object, is I'm
going to do structure, it's properties right here in line.
So in order to do that, I'm going to write three dots and then job of props.
So what this allows us to do is if a test invokes create job props and passes in an argument with a
different value for title or organization or any additional properties as well, because we're going
to de structure the properties here, they're going to overwrite anything that already exists here.
So in other words, if we provide an object with a title property, we're going to overwrite view developer
right here with whatever we pass in, but we're still going to keep the organization.
So we're going to kind of isolate a lot of these properties right here.
But we're also going to going to allow each test to pass in whichever properties they care about to
substitute.
And that way the tests can communicate what matters.
All right.
We're going to see how this works in just a second.
So right here in Create Config, I'm going to make this function now accept a parameter called job props.
And for this job object right here, instead of hard putting all these values in line, I'm going to
structure the value of the job props argument here as well.
So this is going to be an object and this is going to be an object as well.
So let me show you how the syntax is going to work in a sample test.
So right here in our first one, the first thing I need to do is to create some job props.
So I'm going to invoke that create job props method that I defined above.
And what I care about in this test is the title because the title property on the job is where we are
getting this text that you developer from.
So I'm going to provide an object with a single title property and let's give it a different value.
Let's say view programmer instead of your developer.
All right.
So now I have this function returning a object of job properties, a basic job.
So I'm going to save this to job props.
And then what I'm going to do is when I mount my job listing opponent, my create config function now
expects to get that job object right here is job props so that it can take its properties and restructure
them here into job.
So I'm going to pass in my job props right here.
So why?
Why is this a good strategy, in my opinion?
Well, now the test communicates that view programmer is the value of the title property and that's
flowing in as a prop into our component called job and that is going to affect what the component render.
So obviously we're failing right now because our title is You Programmer.
So this should be view programmer as well.
But now somebody else reading it can see a better association about what data is involved in making
this assertion.
Instead of wondering where is view programmer coming from, they can now look two lines above and realize
Oh, it's something related to title that has something to do with our job prop that is flowing in.
Now, if a test doesn't care about any custom props because it wants to fall back to these default values
right here, that's totally fine because we can totally invoke create job props by itself and that will
give us a reasonable job object with some kind of title in organization, property view developer and
Airbnb respectively.
And we're going to pass in no an empty object because we're going to fall back to this default and thus
we're going to have kind of the standard job.
And then the test communicates that it doesn't really care about any properties on the job object.
It just needs some job object to exist in order to pass into the component, right?
So it kind of allows each test to express which job properties it cares about.
So similarly below here we currently have an issue where we don't know what Airbnb is and where it's
coming from, and we don't want the user to scroll up and look for it.
So what we can do is write another contact job props and we'll invoke that create job props function
to generate a sample job or sample job props for us.
But this time around, the property that we care about that's going to influence the actual appearance
of Airbnb is of course the organization property owner job object.
So right here I'm going to write organization, let's say Airbnb here to keep it consistent and then
we need to make sure we pass that job props object into our create config function because it's going
to take that object right here in the structure, those job properties into the job object right here,
this flowing in as a prop.
So we've kind of isolated the complexity of all the component needs in order to mount the stubbing out
and the existence of a job prop, which is always required.
But the details of the job object itself and the variations in that job object, which is really what
affects the actual assertions in these tests, we've kept that within our test while isolating the things
that we don't care about.
A little further above, if the if the other user that is reading this file doesn't read this, I don't
necessarily think that it's a loss.
Rather, they can look at this test, they can figure out that title has some significance.
They can assume that the create config function is doing some kind of configuration that is needed for
the test to run.
And they don't necessarily need to scroll up to see the content above.
And I know it may not seem obvious or beneficial yet because our our test suite is so small.
But you can imagine if we have ten different assertions and the file becomes 100 lines long, it can
become pretty annoying to have the scroll back up to remember what everything means.
Now.
Each test better communicates which property matters and how it affects what we're testing.
So I think this is a good refactor, again, subject to debate depending on which developer you talk
to, but I think it keeps the tests clean.
Each test has a single assertion.
The description describes the value and the implement.
The test implementation shows you how we actually arrive at that assertion, at that validation, at
the component is doing what it's supposed to.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you next one.